=pod

=head1 NAME

B<pam_exec_pwd> - PAM module which calls external commands, optionnaly 
passing the user's password through their environment.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<pam_jail> is a PAM module that can be used to run external commands 
based on a user's name or groups. Optionnally, the user's password can 
be passed to some of those external commands through the I<PASSWD>
environment variable.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 12

=item B<close_run_all>

When closing a session, don't stop running commands if one of them returns
an error. All commands are run in a row, and an error is returned at the
end if at least one of those returned an error.

=back

=head1 MODULE SERVICES PROVIDED

B<pam_exec_pwd> supports the session and auth services. The session service
is the only one available for running commands (at session opening and / or 
closing). The auth service does not run any external commands, but saves 
the user's password for later use by the session service. Thus, it needs to 
be included in the auth stack whenever some of the commands to be run at 
session opening will require access to the user's password, and can be safely
ignored otherwise.

Note also that the user's password can only be made available to external 
commands at session opening, while only password-less commands can be run 
when closing the session.

=head1 FILES

B<pam_exec_pwd> uses F</etc/security/exec.conf> as its configuration file, as
well as files contained in F</etc/security/exec.conf.d>. These files 
are read in the following order : F<exe.conf> file then directory's regular
files in alphabetical order.
These file may contain one or several lines, each of which describe a 
command to run, how to run it and when, in the following form:

=over 12

=item I<name> I<flags> I<cmd> [I<arg>]

=back

with

=over 12

=item I<name> 

The login name of the user to match. The following command will only be
run when that user opens or closes a session. Alternatively, if I<name> is 
prefixed by a '@', it is taken as the name of a group, and the following 
command will be run when any member of that group opens or closes a session.
A name of "*" will match every user, regardless of their name or group.
Prefixing a user or group name with '-' (before the '@', for a group) will 
invert the match : the command will only be run for users that do not match
the specified user or group name.

=item I<flags>

Flags giving more information as to when and how to run the command. Each flag
is represented by a letter, which are then concatenated into I<flags>. The 
following letters are supported:

=over 24

=item 'o'

Run the command when opening a session.

=item 'c'

Run the command when closing a session.

=item 'p'

Give the user's password to the executed command, through its environment.
This is only supported if the command is run when opening a session.

=item 'u'

Run the command under the user's gid and uid, rather than under the identity
of the authenticating process.

=back

=item I<cmd>

The command to be run (full path).

=item I<arg>

An optional, single, argument for the command.

=back

Note that commands that require a user password should be placed before
those that do not in the configuration file, to avoid running only the
latter when B<pam_exec_pwd> fails to get a user's password for some 
reason.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

The commands run by B<pam_exec_pwd> get the name of the user on behalf
of whom they are called through the I<USER> variable. Optionnally, the password
of that user can also be passed as the I<PASSWD> variable.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

=over 12

=item PAM_SUCCESS 

Session service: all external commands were run successfully.
Auth service: the user's password was retrieved and, if non empty, 
saved successfully.
Setcred service: automatic.

=item PAM_AUTH_ERR 

An error was encountered by the auth service.

=item PAM_SERVICE_ERR 

An error was encountered by the session service, or in one of the external 
commands run at that point. An unsupported module (password, account) was 
called.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR 

Vincent Strubel <L<clipos@ssi.gouv.fr>>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<pam(8)|pam>
 
=cut
